Add new vacuum state property and enum (#2360)
home-assistant/developers.home-assistant: blog/2024-10-13-new-vacuum-state-property.md

---
author: G Johansson
authorURL: https://github.com/gjohansson-ST
authorImageURL: https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/62932417?v=4
authorTwitter: GJohansson
title: "New vacuum state property"
---

> As of Home Assistant Core 2024.11, the constants used to return state in `StateVacuumEntity` are deprecated and replaced by the `VacuumEntityState` enum.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As of Home Assistant Core 2025.1, the constants used to return state in `StateVacuumEntity` are deprecated and replaced by the `VacuumActivity` enum.
```

> Also with this change, integrations should set the `vacuum_state` property instead of directly setting the `state` property.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Also with this change, integrations should set the `activity` property instead of directly setting the `state` property.
```

> There is a one-year deprecation period, and the constants will stop working from 2025.11 to ensure all custom integration authors have time to adjust.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There is a one-year deprecation period, and the constants will stop working from 2026.1 to ensure all custom integration authors have time to adjust.
```

### Example

```python

> from homeassistant.components.vacuum import VacuumEntityState
> 
> class MyVacuumCleaner(StateVacuumEntity):
>     """My vacuum cleaner."""
> 
>     @property
>     def vacuum_state(self) -> VacuumEntityState | None:
>         """Return the state of the vacuum."""
>         if self.device.is_cleaning():
>             return VacuumEntityState.CLEANING
>         return VacuumEntityState.DOCKED

Reviewer: ```suggestion
from homeassistant.components.vacuum import VacuumActivity

class MyVacuumCleaner(StateVacuumEntity):
    """My vacuum cleaner."""

    @property
    def activity(self) -> VacuumActivity | None:
        """Return the activity of the vacuum."""
        if self.device.is_cleaning():
            return VacuumActivity.CLEANING
        return VacuumActivity.DOCKED
```
